What do you think?
Is there a connection, a relationship between love and peace?
And if so, what role does love play in achieving genuine peace?
The Bible helps us to appreciate that love is an essential element in achieving genuine
peace.
So we're interested in showing love.
As students of the Bible, we know that humans were created in the image of God, and as a result,
you and I have the ability to show love.
But we also know that we live in a world that has a very distorted view and definition
of love.
That combined with our own imperfection means that if we're not careful, our view of
love can become distorted.
So how do we guard against that?
By allowing Jehovah to teach us how to love.
And when you think about it, what better teacher could we have?
The Bible says that God is love.
That means that Jehovah, our Creator, who knows us better than we know ourselves, who
embodies, who personifies love, is willing to teach us how to love.
And how does he do that?
Well by means of his word, the Bible, and by means of his own beautiful example, as we
get acquainted with Jehovah, we learn what love really is.
And as we put that love to work, as Jesus did, then we're in a position to enjoy genuine
peace.
In this symposium, we're going to explore how love for God, love of neighbor, and love
for God's word, the Bible, can lead to genuine peace.
First, let's talk about love for God.
How important is that if we want to enjoy genuine peace?
Well, Jesus provides some insight and a statement he made that's recorded in our Bibles
at Matthew chapter 22.
Let's look at it.
Matthew chapter 22, and we're going to read verse 37.
Now to provide some context for these words, Jesus has been asked a question by a man who
is well versed in the law.
What is the greatest commandment in the law?
Notice how Jesus responds.
He said to him, you must love Jehovah your God with your whole heart and with your whole
soul and with your whole mind.
This is the greatest and first commandment.
You must love Jehovah your God, the command, love for Jehovah is essential.
It has to be the most important relationship in our life, more important than any human,
more important than anything.
We want to love Jehovah to what extent?
Well, Jesus says with your whole heart, and what does that involve?
The context of Jesus' words helps us to understand that he was talking about a person's feelings,
emotions, desires.
So does love for God involve our emotions?
Absolutely.
And it has to involve more than a simple affection for God.
Why do we say that?
Well, what did Jesus say next?
With your whole soul.
That is with your entire being.
We use everything we have to praise Jehovah and to prove our love for him.
But even more is involved.
Jesus concludes by saying with your whole mind.
So our intellectual faculties are involved.
We're willing to take the time to get to know Jehovah's thinking and make it our thinking.
We want to think the way Jehovah thinks.
We want to understand his purpose and his requirements for us.
And we want to understand his personality.
When we think about that kind of love, it's clear that it encompasses our thoughts,
our words, and our actions.
Nothing is left out.
And that kind of love provides a basis for a friendship with God.
And that results in peace with God.
So there we see the progression.
Loving Jehovah with our whole heart, soul, and mind leads to peace with God.
And as we enjoy peace with God, we can also enjoy inner peace and peace with those around
us.
Now, how does that work?
Well, our love for Jehovah motivates us to imitate him.
And we cultivate the qualities that Jehovah displays.
For example, patience, kindness, mildness, qualities that make us attractive to others
and qualities that promote peace with others.
I'm sure you would agree that we want to be at peace with God.
But sometimes our peace can be threatened.
We may experience pressure.
We may be the subject of some wrong, some injustice, some evil that threatens our peace.
And then the question is, will we handle things in a way that is pleasing to Jehovah?
Or will we become impatient or try to take matters into our own hands?
In the following dramatization, notice how a family draws strength from a Bible account
that highlights love and respect for Jehovah's sovereignty.
Thank you.
Okay, Mom, I'm going to preach.
See you.
Bye, Mom.
Love you.
Have a good day.
I know she's wide.
Oh, yeah.
Okay, I'm totally posting that.
Do it.
Okay, it's up.
Hey, everyone, Brooke here in Amanda.
Guess who just walked in.
There's Jake.
Today's Paul, would she ever?
No, she would never.
She's an angel.
Actually, you know she's wild.
Oh, she saw it.
I don't believe you.
I don't even think she likes guys.
What if she's into girls?
I bet she's still a virgin.
Hey, can I see that?
Yeah, of course.
Here you go.
Enjoy life forever.
Now, how are you going to do that?
Well, that's a very good question, actually.
Well, I've got promises.
No, no, no.
Oh, not God, you.
What are you doing?
Me?
Well, I try to help others.
Try?
Man, all you do is stand next to your little cart
while the rest of us stand up for your rights, bro.
Well, I'm actually neutral.
Neutral?
Ain't no neutral.
You're just a coward.
Take a trash.
How did it go?
It was a tough day at the car park.
I'm okay.
Olivia?
What's wrong?
Would she ever?
No, she would never.
She's an angel.
You know she's wild.
Oh, she saw it.
I'm so sorry that happened to you.
You know, it reminds me of a situation Paul was in.
I think it was Acts chapter 16,
in verse 23,
after they had inflicted many blows on them.
They threw them into prison
and ordered the jailer to guard them securely.
Because he got such an order,
he threw them into the inner prison
and fastened their feet in the stocks.
But about the middle of the night,
Paul and Silas were praying
and praising God with song.
And the prisoners were listening to them.
What do you think made them want to sing?
They loved Jehovah.
And when they focused on that,
how do you think they felt?
I think they felt some peace.
That's right.
How about we dig a little bit deeper?
Well, what did you notice?
Gabe and Olivia are under pressure.
Olivia in the classroom?
Gabe at the witnessing cart?
How will they handle the pressure?
In a way that preserves their peace with Jehovah?
Well, it's a good question.
And really all of us need to reflect on that question
when we're under pressure.
We know that Jehovah's way is the best way.
We're convinced that his way of ruling is the best way.
But when we're subjected to pressure,
perhaps the victim of some injustice,
or even of some evil,
we may be inclined to take matters into our own hands.
And when we do,
it can jeopardize our peace.
So how do we demonstrate respect for Jehovah's sovereignty?
The inspired advice in Romans chapter 12 can help.
Let's look together at Romans chapter 12 beginning in verse 17.
Return evil for evil to no one.
So this provides the context for what follows.
We may suffer some evil.
Return evil for evil to no one.
Take into consideration what is fine from the viewpoint of all men.
And then notice verse 18.
If possible, as far as it depends on you,
be peaceable, be a peacemaker with all men.
Now these words really heighten our appreciation
for Jehovah's reasonableness.
Why do we say that?
Because Jehovah doesn't ask us to do something that we can't do.
He doesn't ask us to control others.
No.
To the extent it depends on you.
Jehovah asks that each of us control ourselves,
our response to a situation.
And to be peacemakers.
And then an explanation.
Verse 19.
Do not avenge yourselves, beloved,
but yield place to the wrath.
Why?
For it is written, vengeance is mine.
I will repay, says Jehovah.
So the advice is be a peacemaker.
And leave wrath to God.
Let him determine if and when and upon whom vengeance will be brought.
It's easy to say, but is it always easy to do?
No.
The example of King David can be very helpful to us.
Through no fault of his own,
David became the target of King Saul's murderous hatred.
And on several occasions Saul tried to kill David.
For several years David lived as a fugitive,
but there were opportunities during that time for David to harm Saul,
even to kill him.
He could have justified that in his mind,
but do you think had he done so,
it would have threatened his peace,
his peace especially with Jehovah,
we know that it would.
So how did David respond?
On one occasion he said to his men,
it is unthinkable from Jehovah's standpoint
that I should do such a thing to my Lord,
the anointed of Jehovah.
What helped David?
Well, he saw a bigger picture than David and Saul, didn't he?
He saw a picture with David, Saul, and Jehovah,
and he knew that if Saul needed to be corrected,
Jehovah would do it in his time and way.
As a result David was willing to be patient,
and he preserved his peace, his peace with God,
his inner peace, and his peace with those around him.
What a beautiful example.
And we can be sure that if we demonstrate our love for Jehovah
by respecting his sovereignty, waiting on him,
that we will enjoy peace as well.
Jehovah assures us that he will bless his people.
He will bless us with peace.
So let us be determined to love Jehovah
with our whole heart, soul, and mind,
and to demonstrate our love for Jehovah
by patiently waiting on him and respecting his sovereignty,
his way of doing things.
If we do, we will enjoy the incomparable peace of God.
Now, Brother Ralph Walholz, a helper to the Personnel Committee,
will present the next talk of this symposium.
How love leads to genuine peace, love of neighbor.